---
title: 'Integrated Sensing,Computing and Intelligent Monitoring for MorphingWing Shapes'
date: 2026-01-01 
excerpt: ''
permalink: /posts/2026/01/Project/
tags:
  - Wireless Sensing
  - Shape Sensing
  - Morphing Wing
  - Deformation Reconstruction
---

Shape sensing of morphing wings is essential for enabling real-time aerodynamic
control in next-generation aircraft. It plays a pivotal role in enhancing
performance, reducing fuel consumption, and improving stealth capabilities, with
extensive demand in both low-altitude economy and defense sectors. However, the
efficient implementation of morphing wing shape sensing still faces three major
challenges: the complex wiring and maintenance difficulties of wired sensor
networks in practical applications; the high computational load and real-time
limitations of deformation reconstruction algorithms; and the lack of optimization
strategies for multi-dimensional performance in the sensing system. To address
these issues, this project focus on two key areas: the intelligent wireless
sensing technology and the advanced deformation reconstruction algorithm. First,
low-power wireless sensing units will be developed, along with an efficient
networking protocol and a robust transmission mechanism, to reduce the complexity
and maintenance requirements of the sensing network. Additionally, a
scaled-boundary inverse finite element theory will be established to improve the
computational efficiency and accuracy of the deformation reconstruction algorithm.
Furthermore, a multi-parameter optimization model for deformation reconstruction,
considering the interplay between frequency, accuracy, and energy efficiency, will
be constructed to achieve intelligent optimization and multi-dimensional
performance adaptive control of the sensing system under energy constraints. This
project aims to realize integrated “Sensing-Computing-Intelligent ” monitoring
for morphing wing shapes, providing a solid theoretical foundation and key
technological breakthroughs for the development of next-generation aircraft.

*Founded by [NSFC](https://www.nsfc.gov.cn/), From 2026 to 2028*